Department: Technology
Policy Number: TCH-A002
Effective Date: 4/17/06
ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY
The online version of this policy is official.
Therefore, all printed versions of this
document are unofficial copies.
TECHNOLOGY ACCEPTABLE USAGE
Clarksville-Montgomery County School System (CMCSS) has developed an extensive technology
infrastructure, including hardware, software and connectivity equipment toward the purpose of
improving the District’s educational, administrative and clerical functions. The significant ongoing
investment in technology is in part justified by two promises:
To better prepare students for life and work in a future filled with technology laden
changes, and use.
To increase the productivity of current and future staff.
This investment must be protected from potential misuse and deliberate abuse. CMCSS uses a
Children’s Internet Protection Act (CIPA) compliant solution to prevent student access to
materials the district deems harmful and to block internet access to inappropriate sites, including
child pornography and obscenity. This policy clarifies roles and responsibilities in the use of
CMCSS technology, both hardware and software, to preserve the integrity and usability of these
resources to benefit and serve all clients. Failure to comply with this policy may result in the
suspension of privileges, internal investigation, and/or criminal prosecution. CMCSS must be
strict in these matters, not only because of the value of the resources, but also to ensure a safe
and productive learning and working environment for our students, faculty, and staff. These rules
apply to all CMCSS computing resources.
The intent of this policy is to raise awareness about what is appropriate, ethical, legal and
professional use of a valuable shared resource, not to enumerate all uses that are or are
not appropriate.
Acceptable use of CMCSS information technology resources is based on common sense,
common decency, and civility applied to the networked computing environment. There is no
expectation of privacy by users when using the internet or electronic communications. The
district reserves the right to monitor, inspect, copy, review and store (at any time and without any
prior notice) all usage of district computers, computer systems, and electronic communications.
The district may access district-owned or networked computers for maintenance, upgrades, and
at any time of suspected abuse of district policy. Appropriate use of these resources must be
consistent with the purpose for which the computer/security accounts (log-ins) were originally
requested and provided. Privately owned devices connected to CMCSS network, whether wired
or wireless, are subject to monitoring, inspection, possible confiscation, and investigation.
Attaching privately owned devices to CMCSS network is a privilege and is subject to all
provisions within the Technology Acceptable Usage Policy.
Expressly prohibited are any uses:
Which benefit any political, religious, or commercial organization.
Which are illegal, obscene, or for profit.
That adversely affect the reputation or image of CMCSS.
Of unauthorized attempts to log in to any network as a system administrator. This could
result in cancellation of user privileges.
Of unauthorized disclosure of personal information.
11/30/15, Rev.K
TCH-A002
Page 1 of 6Department: Technology
Policy Number: TCH-A002
Effective Date: 4/17/06
Involving vandalism. Vandalism is defined as any malicious attempt to harm or destroy
CMCSS data, data of another user, or other CMCSS computing facilities or equipment.
This could result in cancellation of privileges.
Network Security
Network passwords and account information are only given to authorized personnel.
Only users with valid CMCSS network accounts are authorized to use the CMCSS
network and computer equipment. Employees and students must only use their assigned
network account.
All computer users must always secure their computer(s) and network log-in before
leaving their room or office. Do not allow anyone to use your computer (with the
exception of a CMCSS Technology Department employee). The individual assigned a
computer/security account is accountable for any and all transactions entered under that
computer/security account login.
For the protection and security of the CMCSS data, all equipment attached to the
CMCSS physical network (equipment located at a CMCSS facility either wired or
wireless) must be CMCSS property or have received approval from the IT Department
management.
Use of software designed to gain passwords or access beyond the rights assigned to a
user or computer is strictly prohibited. Use of such programs risk the security of the
network and is considered “hacking”. The intent to obtain unauthorized access is a
violation of State and Federal law. Violators will be prosecuted. Should you inadvertently
discover passwords or any other method used to control unauthorized access; this must
be reported immediately to supervisory personnel in the room (in case of students) or the
Chief Technology Officer (in case of staff).
The following activities and uses of the CMCSS network are prohibited:
1. Downloading, installation or use of programs that infiltrate computing systems and/or
damage software components, including “viruses” and “worms”.
2. Downloading, installation or use of any program or software not listed on CMCSS
software approval list is prohibited without prior written authorization of IT Department
management. Updates of existing IT installed software are permitted.
3. Intentionally disrupting network traffic, crashing the network, or gaining unauthorized
access to the files of another user.
4. Use of the network to personally attack, harass, threaten, or bully another person
intentionally or recklessly publish false information about another person.
5. Use of inappropriate language in any type of communication, including, but not limited
to, language that is illegal, vulgar, profane, abusive or threatening.
6. Any access to the network through false identity including anonymous communication,
falsifying, concealing, or misrepresenting the user’s identity or sharing or loaning
network accounts.
7. Mass e-mailing of unsolicited and unwanted messages (“spamming”), including text,
software, video images, graphics and chain letters.
11/30/15, Rev.K
TCH-A002
Page 2 of 6Department: Technology
Policy Number: TCH-A002
Effective Date: 4/17/06
8. Downloading music and sound recording for non-instructional purposes without the
permission of supervisory personnel.
Workstation/Computer Use
All employees and students are prohibited from installing any software on any computer
unless authorized in writing by the IT Department management. Illegal download or use
of copyrighted software, music, videos, pictures or other files is strictly prohibited.
All employees and students are prohibited from using any computer for illegal or
commercial activity.
Any desktop application designed to limit access to students or staff, other than those
used by the IT Department for network security purposes, is prohibited.
Changing or tampering with any computer’s vital system configuration is strictly
prohibited.
Any action which violates Board or Administrative policies, local, state or federal law is
prohibited.
Computers found to be tampered with or computers with unapproved software or files will
be re-formatted and restored to compliance.
All loaned computer equipment loans must comply with the district Equipment Loan
Agreement (BUS-F012).
Internet Connectivity
CMCSS provides internet connectivity to improve the District’s educational, administrative
and clerical functions. Responsible and ethical use of the wired and wireless network
system is required. Internet use is intended for valid and legitimate district related
purposes. Classroom use of the internet is intended for instructional related purposes
only. Internet connectivity may not be used for personal gain or political or religious
views or in any illegal, offensive or unethical manner, to include bullying-related acts. All
internet traffic is subject to review at any time by authorized CMCSS personnel. In the
event of a violation of this policy, the device used in such violation (either private or
property of the CMCSS) may be confiscated and searched. There is no expectation of
privacy.
It is the responsibility of all members of the CMCSS staff to supervise and monitor usage
of the online computer network and access to the internet in accordance with this policy
and the CIPA.
Viruses and Virus Protection
The CMCSS IT Department will provide all virus protection and related software for all
CMCSS workstations and servers. Virus protection and related software will be installed
by authorized IT personnel unless otherwise approved by the IT Department.
Do not open any e-mail attachments from anyone you do not know. Never send anyone
e-mail you suspect may contain a virus. The intentional spreading of messages or files
containing damaging or destructive programs or data is against federal law. Violators will
be prosecuted. If you suspect your computer may contain a virus, contact the IT
Department immediately.
11/30/15, Rev.K
TCH-A002
Page 3 of 6Department: Technology
Policy Number: TCH-A002
Effective Date: 4/17/06
There are many virus hoaxes. Never delete system files from a computer in order to
remove a potential virus without first checking with the IT Department to ensure the virus
is valid and not a hoax.
Copyright Policy
All students and employees will comply with all applicable copyright laws in the use of all
media and materials and model legal and ethical practices related to technology. CMCSS
students may create work in the classroom individually and with the assistance of
CMCSS employees. Such work is owned by the student upon creation. Students and
their legal guardians agree that any and all such student created work may be used by
CMCSS in its publications, including but not limited to websites and other distributed
materials promoting CMCSS, provided that such original student work will be reported as
having been created by the student. Any student who desires not to authorize CMCSS to
publish his/her work or to publish his/her name as the owner of such work, shall provide
written notice to CMCSS that such authorization is not granted (added from Code of
Conduct Copyright Policy for Student Created Work).
E-mail
The CMCSS and student e-mail systems have been provided for the internal and external
communication of employees, board members, and students. Responsible and ethical
use of the e-mail system is required and should reflect professional standards at all
times. The e-mail system may not be used for personal gain or political or religious views
or in any illegal, offensive or unethical manner, to include bullying-related acts. Personal
e-mails should be limited. All e-mail is the property of CMCSS and should not be
considered private or confidential and as such, is subject to review at any time by
authorized CMCSS personnel.
All district employee emails must adhere to the signature guidelines provided by the Technology
Department. The only valid email signatures are those created using the following webpage:
http://www.cmcss.net/departments/communications/signature.aspx
Cell Phones
This policy is meant to ensure the safe operation of both company vehicles and private
vehicles while an employee is conducting business on work time. The use of a cell phone
while driving may present a hazard to the driver, other employees and the general public.
CMCSS employees are not permitted to use cell phones for voice communications, e-
mail communications, or text communications while operating a CMCSS motor vehicle
(Ref. OPS-A006).
In addition, employees must adhere to all local, state or federal rules, regulations, laws or
other ordinances regarding the use of cell phones while driving personal vehicles.
Employees should check with local authorities if they are unsure whether the use of a cell
phone while driving is prohibited in a particular area. It is recommended that employees
not use hand held cell phones for business purposes while driving personal vehicles.
Employees may use hands-free cell phones to make business calls in accordance with
the law.
Additionally, personal telephone calls should be limited both in time and nature so as not
to interfere with work responsibilities. If an employee abuses this privilege while using a
CMCSS-issued cell phone, the employee will be responsible for reimbursement to the
school system.
11/30/15, Rev.K
TCH-A002
Page 4 of 6Department: Technology
Policy Number: TCH-A002
Effective Date: 4/17/06
Server Software
Only authorized IT Department personnel will install software to servers.
When a suspected violation of the above agreement becomes known, the incident should
be reported to the appropriate supervisor and the Chief Technology Officer. If the
incident is in violation of Board or Administrative Policies, the supervisor shall take
appropriate action. In order to prevent further possible inappropriate activity, the user’s
computer/security account access may be temporarily blocked. If this is deemed
necessary, every effort will be made to inform the user prior to this action and to re-
establish the connection as soon as deemed appropriate. Any determination of
inappropriate use, serious enough to require disconnection, should also be promptly
communicated to the user’s supervisor.
Technology Abuse
In the event a CMCSS employee becomes aware of the misuse or abuse of CMCSS
technology, he or she should act in accordance with the district’s Computer Abuse
Discovery Procedure (TCH-P026).
Associated Documents: Internet Usage Agreement (TCH-F018)
Equipment Loan Agreement (BUS-F012)
Computer Abuse Discovery Procedure (TCH-P026)
Children’s Internet Protection Act
User Password Policy (TCH-A003)
Use of Cell Phone While Operating CMCSS Vehicles (OPS-A006)
Employee Handbook (HUM-M001)
Harassment, Intimidation, Hazing, and Bullying (INS-A016)
Revision History:
Date:
Rev.
4/17/06
Description of Revision:
Initial Release
6/30/08 A Add “computer systems, and electronic communications” to fourth
paragraph, third sentence.
9/17/08 B Second sentence in second paragraph added to comply with TN Senate
Bill No. 3702, obscene added to second sentence under Expressly
prohibited are any uses, add associated documents
10/23/08 C Add fifth sentence under Expressly prohibited are any uses, add second
paragraph under Internet Connectivity and add Children’s Internet
Protection Act to Associated Documents.
07/08/09 D Add Computer Abuse Discovery Procedure reference.
12/10/09 E Change form number in associated documents from TCH-F021 to BUS-
F012.
09/27/10 F Added last sentence to “Internet Connectivity” section.
7/18/11 G Added Children’s Internet Protection Act to second paragraph. Inserted
“value of the resources” in place of “real value of the facilities” in second
paragraph. Changed wording of last sentence in second paragraph.
Added last two sentences in fourth paragraph. Deleted “will result in
cancellation of privileges” from first paragraph on page 3. Inserted “could
11/30/15, Rev.K
TCH-A002
Page 5 of 6Department: Technology
Policy Number: TCH-A002
Effective Date: 4/17/06
nd
result in cancellation of privileges”. Under Network Security, changed 2
paragraph. Miscellaneous grammatical changes. In #2 under prohibited
network activities, added “not listed on CMCSS software approval list is
prohibited”. Added reference to BUS-F012 in Workstation/Computer Use.
Internet Connectivity – added “wired and wireless network” in second
sentence. Cell Phones – Changed third paragraph.
3/5/12 H Updated Cell Phone section to reflect the attached information, added
OPS-A006 and HUM-M001 to Associated Docs.
7/1/14 I 1/5/15 J 11/30/15 K Update email section to student email accounts; Add bullying-related acts
to Internet Connectivity section and Harassment, Intimidation, Hazing,
and Bullying (INS-A016) to Associated Documents
Additional wording added under Copyright Policy and Email; minor
grammatical changes
Added link to valid email signature template under Email section.
* ** En d
11/30/15, Rev.K
o f
Po li c y* * *
TCH-A002
Page 6 of 6
